Asterisk External IVR Interface
-------------------------------

If you load app_externalivr.so in your Asterisk instance, you will
have an ExternalIVR() application available in your dialplan. This
application implements a simple protocol for bidirectional
communication with an external process, while simultaneous playing
audio files to the connected channel (without interruption or
blocking).

There are two ways to use ExternalIVR(); you can execute an
application on the local system or you can establish a socket
connection to a TCP/IP socket server.

To execute a local application use the form:
ExternalIVR(/full/path/to/applcation[(arguments)],options)

The arguments are optional, however if they exist they must be
enclosed in parentheses. The external application will be executed
in a child process, with its standard file handles connected to the
Asterisk process as follows:

stdin (0)  - events will be received on this handle
stdout (1) - commands can be sent on this handle
stderr (2) - messages can be sent on this handle
* Use of stderr for message communication is discouraged because
it is not supported by a socket connection.

To create a socket connection use the form:
ExternalIVR(ivr://host[:port][(arguments)],options)

The host can be a fqdn or an ip address. The port is optional, if
not specified the default of 2949 will be used. The arguments are
optional however if they exist they must be enclosed in parentheses.
TheExternalIVR application will connect to the specified socket
server and establish a bi-directional socket connection, where
events will be sent to the TCP/IP server and commands received
from it.

The specific ExternalIVR options, events and commands are detailed
below.

Upon execution, if not specifically prevented by an option, the
ExternalIVR application will answer the channel (if it's not
already answered), create an audio generator, and start playing
silence. When your application wants to send audio to the channel,
it can send a command (see below) to add a file to the generator's
playlist. The generator will then work its way through the list,
playing each file in turn until it either runs out of files to
play, the channel is hung up, or a command is received to clear
the list and start with a new file. At any time, more files can
be added to the list and the generator will play them in sequence.

While the generator is playing audio (or silence), any DTMF events
received on the channel will be sent to the child process (see
below). Note that this can happen at any time, since the generator,
the child process and the channel thread are all executing
independently. It is very important that your external application
be ready to receive events from Asterisk at all times (without
blocking), or you could cause the channel to become non-responsive.

If the child process dies, or the remote server disconnects,
ExternalIVR() will notice this and hang up the channel
immediately (and also send a message to the log).

ExternalIVR() Options
---------------------
n: 'n'oanswer, don't answer an otherwise unanswered channel.
i: 'i'gnore_hangup, instead of sending an 'H' event and exiting
   ExternalIVR() upon channel hangup, it instead sends an 'I'
   event and expects the external application to exit the process.
d: 'd'ead, allows the operation of ExternalIVR() on channels that
   have already been hung up.

Events
------

All events are be newline-terminated strings and are sent in the
following format:

tag,timestamp[,data]

The tag can be one of the following characters:

0-9: DTMF event for keys 0 through 9
A-D: DTMF event for keys A through D
*: DTMF event for key *
#: DTMF event for key #
H: the channel was hung up by the connected party
E: the script requested an exit
Z: the previous command was unable to be executed. There may be a
   data element if appropriate, see specific commands below for
   details
T: the play list was interrupted (see S command below)
D: a file was dropped from the play list due to interruption (the
   data element will be the dropped file name) NOTE: this tag
   conflicts with the D DTMF event tag. The existence of the data
   element is used to differentiate between the two cases
F: a file has finished playing (the data element will be the file
   name)
P: a response to the 'P' command (see below)
G: a response to the 'G' command (see below)
I: a Inform message, meant to "inform" the client that something
   has occurred.  (see Inform Messages below)

The timestamp will be 10 digits long, and will be a decimal
representation of a standard Unix epoch-based timestamp.

Commands
--------

All commands are newline-terminated strings.

The child process can send one of the following commands:

S,filename
A,filename
H,message
E,message
D,dtmf[,interval][,duration]
O,option
V,name=value[,name=value[,name=value]]
G,name[,name[,name]]
L,log_message
P,TIMESTAMP
T,TIMESTAMP

The 'S' command checks to see if there is a playable audio file with
the specified name, and if so, clear's the generator's playlist and
places the file onto the list. Note that the playability check does
not take into account transcoding requirements, so it is possible for
the file to not be played even though it was found. If the file does
not exist it sends a Z response with the data element set to the file
requested. If the generator is not currently playing silence, then T
and D events will be sent to signal the playlist interruption and
notify it of the files that will not be played.

The 'A' command checks to see if there is a playable audio file with
the specified name, and if so, appends it to the generator's playlist.
The same playability and exception rules apply as for the 'S' command.

The 'H' command logs the supplied message to the Asterisk log, stops
the generator, hangs up the channel and terminates the ExternalIVR
application.

The 'E' command logs the supplied message to the Asterisk log, stops
the generator and terminates the ExternalIVR application, but continues
execution in the dialplan.

The 'D' command generates DTMF on the channel, dtmf is a string of one or
more valid DTMF digits, w can be used for a half second pause. Interval
is optional, defaults to 250 milliseconds and is the time between digits.
Duration is optional and is the duration of each digit.

The 'O' command allows the child to set/clear options in the
ExternalIVR() application.

The supported options are:
(no)autoclear: Automatically interrupt and clear the playlist
               upon reception of DTMF input.

The 'T' command will answer an unanswered channel. If it fails either
answering the channel or starting the generator it sends a Z response
of "Z,TIMESTAMP,ANSWER_FAILED" or "Z,TIMESTAMP,GENERATOR_FAILED"
respectively.

The 'V' command sets the specified channel variable(s) to the specified
value(s).

The 'G' command gets the specified channel variable(s).  Multiple
variables are separated by commas.  Response is in name=value format.

The 'P' command gets the parameters passed into ExternalIVR() minus
the options to ExternalIVR() itself:
        If ExternalIVR() is executed as:
                ExternalIVR(/usr/bin/foo(arg1,arg2),n)
        The response to the 'P' command would be:
                P,TIMESTAMP,/usr/bin/foo,arg1,arg2
NOTE: This is the only way for a TCP/IP server to be able to retrieve
the arguments.

The 'L' command puts a message into the Asterisk log. NOTE: This is
prefered to using stderr and is the only way for a TCP/IP server to
log a message.

Inform Messages
---------------

The only inform message that currently exists is a HANGUP message,
in the form I,TIMESTAMP,HANGUP and is used to inform of a hangup
when the i option is specified.

Errors
------

Any newline-terminated output generated by the child process on its
stderr handle will be copied into the Asterisk log.
